README.md, before:

# TravelingSalesmanGeneticSolver

Solvers for the [Traveling salesman
problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Travelling_salesman_problem) using a
[genetic algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genetic_algorithm). The repo
contain a Python3 and a C++ implementation of the same algorithm, along with
some helpful scripts to generate input graph files and for speed comparison.

### Background

This repo was created as an educational oppurtunity to explore genetic
algorithms as well as allow me(johBac97) to sharpen my C++ skills. An emphasis
has been placed on making the two implementations of the algorithm as
equivalent as possible to allow for an accurate speed comparison. 

### Building C++ version

The source files for the C++ implementation are stored in the `cpp/` folder.
The Makefile contained in the top of the repo allows for easy building of the
executable. Using the command,

``` 
make 
```

places a built executable `gen_solver` at the root of the repo. 

### Generating a graph file 

The algorithm an input graph file that describes the particular problem. To
generate such a file use the command:

```
python scripts/generate_graph.py --num-nodes NUM_NODES --max-distance
MAX_DISTANCE GRAPH_OUTPUT_PATH 
```

where `NUM_NODES` are the number of nodes (or cities) to be used when
generating this problem and `MAX_DISTANCE` is the maximum distance between any
two nodes. The generated graph is stored in `GRAPH_OUTPUT_PATH`.

### Usage

To run the python version use the command;

```
py/gen_solver.py PATH_TO_GRAPH
```

and to run the C++ version use the following command after the executable has been built;

```
./gen_solver PATH_TO_GRAPH
```

where `PATH_TO_GRAPH` is the path to the graph file defining the problem.

Optional arguments used by both implementations:

  - `--generations N`: Set the number of generations that the algorithm should run.
  - `--pop-size N`: Set the number of individuals in the population.
  - `--drop-frac R`: Set the fraction of lowest scoring individuals that should be dropped each generation.
  - `--mutation-frac R`: Set the fraction of individuals that should be mutated every generation.
  - `--no-print`: Disable printing to standard output.
  - `--output PATH`: Write the results of the algorithm to a text file.

Commit message:

Added animations section to README

README.md, after:

# TravelingSalesmanGeneticSolver

Solvers for the [Traveling salesman
problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Travelling_salesman_problem) using a
[genetic algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genetic_algorithm). The repo
contain a Python3 and a C++ implementation of the same algorithm, along with
some helpful scripts to generate input graph files and for speed comparison.

### Background

This repo was created as an educational oppurtunity to explore genetic
algorithms as well as to gain more C++ experience. An emphasis
has been placed on making the two implementations of the algorithm as
equivalent as possible to allow for an accurate speed comparison. 

### Building C++ version

The source files for the C++ implementation are stored in the `cpp/` folder.
The Makefile contained in the top of the repo allows for easy building of the
executable. Using the command,

``` 
make 
```

places a built executable `gen_solver` at the root of the repo. 

### Generating a graph file 

The algorithm an input graph file that describes the particular problem. To
generate such a file use the command:

```
python scripts/generate_graph.py --num-nodes NUM_NODES --max-distance
MAX_DISTANCE GRAPH_OUTPUT_PATH 
```

where `NUM_NODES` are the number of nodes (or cities) to be used when
generating this problem and `MAX_DISTANCE` is the maximum distance between any
two nodes. The generated graph is stored in `GRAPH_OUTPUT_PATH`.

### Usage

To run the python version use the command;

```
py/gen_solver.py PATH_TO_GRAPH
```

and to run the C++ version use the following command after the executable has been built;

```
./gen_solver PATH_TO_GRAPH
```

where `PATH_TO_GRAPH` is the path to the graph file defining the problem.

Optional arguments used by both implementations:

  - `--generations N`: Set the number of generations that the algorithm should run.
  - `--pop-size N`: Set the number of individuals in the population.
  - `--drop-frac R`: Set the fraction of lowest scoring individuals that should be dropped each generation.
  - `--mutation-frac R`: Set the fraction of individuals that should be mutated every generation.
  - `--no-print`: Disable printing to standard output.
  - `--output PATH`: Write the results of the algorithm to a text file.
  - `--logfile PATH`: Write logs to file
  - `--log-progress`: Also add current solution for each time step to the logs. Used to create animations.


### Animations

The `scripts/create_animation.py` script can be used to create an animation of the genetic algorithm. It plots the current solution for each time step outputed by solvers.
To create an animation the solvers need to be run with the `--logfile` and `--log-progress` arguments. Then use the following command to create an animation:
```
python scripts/create_animation.py <PATH-TO-GRAPH> <PATH-TO-LOG> --output <PATH-TO-OUTPUT>
```

This will create and show an animation which will then be saved to `<PATH-TO-OUTPUT>`. See the `-h` switch for more options.
